Texas Hold’em poker rules
The Roles
There are three player’s roles in the game:
1)	Big blind (BB)
2)	Small blind (SB)
3)	The Button (D)
These are forced bets required by two players.
The big blind (usually double that of the small blind) is then paid by the player to the left of the small blind. The size of the blinds will dictate the stakes of the game you’re about to play.
The Big blind followed by Small blind. Small blind followed by The Button (player-dealer).
For example: 
•	BB – 2$
•	SB – 1$
•	D – 0$
The maximum and minimum amount a player can be in for will be in relation to the blinds.
For example, in a $1/$2 game the table minimum is usually $40 (20x the big blind) and the maximum is $200 (100x the big blind).
The SB is directly to the left of the D. And BB is on the left of the SB.

Rounds
There four rounds:
1)	The Pre-flop
2)	The Flop
3)	The Turn
4)	The River
All betting rounds begin with the player to the button’s left and continue clockwise.
The Pre-flop
No face-up cards.
The round begins with the SB and continuing clockwise.
A round of betting continues until every player:
1) has folded
2) put in all of their chips
3) matched the amount put in by all other active players.
 If every active player called the BB, he can raise or check.
The flop
Free face-up cards appear.
Players start betting.
The Turn (or the Four street)
A single community card appears.
The river (the Fifth street)
A final single community card appears.
Showdown
If only one player remains in a game, there no requirement to show the cards.
If two or more players remain after the final betting round, a showdown occurs.

On the showdown, each player plays the best poker hand they can make from the seven cards comprising his two cards and the five community cards.
A player may use both of his own two cards, only one, or none at all, to form his final five-card hand.
If the five community cards form the player’s best hand, then the player is said to be playing the board and can only hope to split the pot, because each other player can also use the same five cards to construct the same hand.

Card combinations
There are 10 possible card combinations ordered by their worth:
1)	Highcard
Simple value of the card.
2)	Pair 
Two cards with the same value
3)	Two pairs 
Two times two cards with the same value
4)	Three of a kind 
Three cards with the same value
5)	Straight 
Sequence of 5 cards in increasing value (Ace can precede 2 and follow up King)
6)	Flush 
5 cards of the same suit
7)	Full house 
Combination of three of a kind and a pair
8)	Four of a kind 
Four cards of the same value
9)	Straight flush 
Straight of the same suit
10)	Royal flush 
Straight flush from Ten to Ace
The weakest one is Highcard. The most powerful is Royal flush
Betting
Players can act in many ways:
1)	Call
Matching the bet made by another player.
2)	Raise
To match the bet made by a previous player and increasing the total amount of the bet.
3)	Check
If a player chooses to not bet with no action ahead of them, they can check.
4)	Fold
Throwing away your hand to avoid having to call a bet.
5)	Bet
1)	Chips or money put into the pot as the first action in a betting round.
2)	The count of actions made in the hand.
6)	All-in
Having the entirety of your stack in the pot.
